---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "My Opinion On Artificial Intelligence"
pubDate: 2025-07-03
author: "Thanapat Nartthanarung"
image:
  url: ""
  alt: ""
tags: []
---

Artificial Intelligence. The buzz words that probably spark any tech investors' interests, any corporation looking to upgrade their dusty systems or your average non-tech savvy merchant looking for hope in the digital market.

I dare to say, that the misunderstanding of such pair of words are breaking societies through many forms and over many industries. It is pretty concerning, yet people are intentionally becoming slaves to its algorithms. Here I will be discussing this controversial take and why, "A.I. isn't just A.I."

Before I begin, I do have to confess that I am an A.I. user, and accept to fate that avoiding A.I. altogether would influence my professional career (for better or for worse.) Futurist, Whistleblower, AI Engineer, OpenAI Founder. I hold none of those titles. If you will continue reading this, take it with a grain of salt, because it is all my honest opinion.

A personal digital assistant, an FPS-game bot and an A.I. Chatbot all usually serve a similar purpose(s): Assist users; But of course they do it differently.

PDAs (e.g. Alexa, Siri) are made to serve users by mainly acquiring data from the real world (e.g. the weather) and solve a problem requested/set by the user (ex. turning on the lights.)

An FPS-game bot assist users by aiding them or providing challenge in a video game match (e.g. ally bot, enemy bot.)

An A.I. Chatbot is not god, nor is it your digital girlfriend. It is also certainly not your certified psychiatrist. It serves users by retrieving text inputs and using probability-based algorithms to find the best output that satisfies or answers your requests by using trillions of data points from sources (that may or may not legally allow retrieval of such protected data.) You can see that, under the hood, A.I. is a dry skeleton wearing a golden gown.

One thing to point out is that, considering the level of emotions and complicated feelings that humans possess, all of these three things mentioned are and will be completely incapable in such context involved with those elements.
Yes, A.I.s can make minor guesses and decisions, but people need to understand that it is a supporting tool. Not something to have your business lean on.

In industries that involve creativity and art, I for one, absolutely don't support the involvement of A.I. as it will influence one of the great pillars of being human.

I want to end this post with a wonderful quote from John Keating (Robin Williams), Dead Poets' Society (1989):

"We don't read and write poetry because it's cute. We read and write poetry because we are members of the human race. And the human race is filled with passion." 🖼️
