---
layout: ../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: "TTRPGs and Their Benefits"
pubDate: 2026-02-17
author: "Thanapat Nartthanarung"
image:
  url: ""
  alt: ""
tags: []
---

Recently, I have been playing and organizing TTRPG games. A few of them I love are Delta Green and Into the Odd. The first one can be summarized as a roleplaying game where you assume the role of secret agents, protecting (American) citizens from discovering aliens, occult beings and haunting truths about the universe. The latter is entitled an "OSR" (Old School Renaissance) type TTRPG. One like D&D (Dungeons and Dragons) with a grimdark fantasy setting where you explore a world of oddities and monsters.

TTRPGs (tabletop role-playing games) are neither crafted experiences like video games, static rule-based experiences like board games or physical experiences like sports, exhibitions, or theme parks. TTRPGs are unique creations. Both an exercise and an experience happening in the players' minds; many DMs call this the Theater of the Mind.

I certainly believe that anyone reading this should try playing some of these TTRPGs or, even better, become a Game Master themselves. Being a TTRPG player allows you to experience a narrative experience on a new level. Solve problems through roleplaying and thinking creatively. Being a GM allows you train your brain to improvise in various situations, think as different characters, and allow yourself to build worlds for your players through storytelling.

I have been organizing playtests of an Into the Odd module called The Iron Coral, by Chris McDowall. An amazing introductory adventure that helps you get used to its rules-lite system. Into the Odd also fits well with modules from other OSRs like Cairn 2E.

If you want to know more generally about how to setup good TTRPG campaigns as a GM, I also recommend reading articles from Justin Alexander: https://lnkd.in/gTiQxf2y

If anyone is interested in playing or knowing more about how I studied and set up TTRPGs, let me know!

Into the Odd Core Book: https://lnkd.in/g2W9EkYw
Cairn: https://cairnrpg.com/
